# Machine Learning on Texas Oil & Gas Industry Water Spills from 2013 to 2022
This project will focus on data pertaining to oil spills occurring from 2013 to 2022 in Texas. The article linked entails the millions of gallons of wastewater spilled by oil and gas companies. [Oil and Gas Companies Spill Millions of Gallons of Wastewater in Texas](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/31102023/oil-gas-companies-spill-wastewater-in-texas/) The data was retrieved from the Texas Railroad commission which the article states has a history of "messy record-keeping" which was then cleaned for a "first-ever public analysis of produced water spills" (Aldhous & Pskowski). It not only tracks crude oil spillage, but also toxic wastewater as a byproduct of these companies that is "highly saline" and harmful to farming land nearby as it "can render land barren for years" (Aldhous & Pskowski).

I retrieved my data files from [kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sujaykapadnis/texas-oil-and-gas-industry-water-spills-2013-2022/data) which contained two csv files of "cleaned" data regarding these oil spills. Cleaned is in quotes as it is cleaned for the uploader's purposes (volume of water and oil in barrels is converted to gallons, and instances of recovered oil and water are remedied so they are not larger than instances of oil and water released), but I intend to further clean it for my purposes. The file I am working with is called "central_cleaned.csv", and I aim to perform regression on this data to capture the importance of what is provided. 

First, I will identify the data items that are most important to this topic. I will then clean the data even further to work with a dataframe that is relevant to my goal. My identified main features are **release_crude_oil, release_prod_wtr, recovery_crude_oil, and recovery_prod_wtr**. The feature **release_crude_oil** is related to gallons of crude oil released, and **release_prod_wtr** is related to gallons of wastewater released. On the other hand, **recovery_crude_oil, and recovery_prod_wtr** are gallons of crude oil and wastewater recovered. I aim to see how these features are correlated and will then do as follows:

## 1. Perform Linear Regression
From this I hope to see how strongly all of these features are correlated and gain general information about the relationships between the release of crude oil and the release of wastewater produced. I will be looking at the model's key values such as r-squared and p-values to hopefully get a better understanding on how strong my selected features are and training my models on this data. 
## 2. Perform Random Forest Regression
I will then perform regression on this data to see if a non-linear approach is a better fit. I will again, compare significant key values such as r-squared to see if there were any improvements on fitting our data. 

My goal is to _highlight the importance of understanding and predicting the release of crude oil over poorly maintained data_. As this world moves towards fighting issues such as climate change, it is crucial to make sense of the information we can get about how companies are operating.  
